Description of wireframes for EVEREST, a site to help ESL teachers and Bhutanese translators collaboratively produce audio lessons for Bhutanese Nepali refugees. The wireframes can be seen in wireframes.pdf.

1) Base template. The main feature is a navbar including two drop-down boxes. (Teacher and translator tools.) We may try to simplify this further. We want the page to be unconfusing for users with limited English skills, but to contain links to all the major views.

There's a mockup of a logo on this page, too. We're thinking of naming our webapp "Everest" or "Everest English," since it's intended for Nepalis.

2) Sentence view. Displays a single sentence in every format in which it currently exists, which MUST include one written English version and MAY include some number of written Nepali, English audio and Nepali audio. A sidebar will show lists this sentence appears in. ESL teachers will have the option to record new English audio and to add the sentence to one of their lists (which will pop up a dialogue box); translators will have the option to add a new written translation (which will pop up a text box) or record Nepali audio. The record audio option will take them to a separate record audio page, but we haven't wireframed that since we haven't chosen a backend for that yet.

3) ESL teachers will create sentences in the contexts of lists, or lessons. In the list view, only the English version of the sentence will be seen, but it will be a link to the sentence view of that sentence. If the list has been completed, a download link will appear.

4) List owners will be able to edit their lists, which at this point will consist only of deleting existing sentences from the list, adding sentences to the list. This is also where the list owner can generate the mp3 when the list is complete. When an ESL teacher wants to create a new list, they will see this view but the title and sentence list will be blank. (They may also receive a reminder to search for existing content before requesting new translations.)

5) The Find a Sentence view will by default list ALL sentences (at least while the site is small) but will allow users to filter the list by searching by word, topic or user.

6) The Find a List view will by default list ALL lists/lessons but will also allow filtering. You will see the list owner's user icon next to the list name, to aid low-literacy site users. This will, we think, be the default view of the website for un-logged-in users (e.g., students).

7) Find a User lists all users, again with search. When you click the user's name, you see their profile.

8 & 9) Sentences that need audio and written translation into Nepali. These may be combined later. The view of sentences needing audio translation will be the default view of translator users.

10 & 11) Profiles for ESL teachers and Bhutanese translators, respectively. They include a userpic and small bio. An ESL teacher's profile lists all their lessons; a translator's profile lists all the sentences they've translated.

Not shown) We will also obviously have login, logout, register and confirm registration pages, but they seem too simple to worry about wireframing. At registration, the user will be asked to self-identify as an ESL teacher, translator, or "other," which will affect which views they get and which options they're given.

